[Manifest][Updates][1636465] (#2931)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/add-default-install-scope.md

---
title: Add a default install scope and group capability
description: Describes how to add default install scope and group capability for apps.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

> 

Reviewer: @KirtiPereira Remove extra space.

> # Add a default install scope and group capability

Reviewer: @KirtiPereira I think this topic needs some work. From what I can tell, there are two app configuration tasks here that need steps. Here is how we could possibly structure it:

## Configure app's default install scope

Explain what this configuration is for, why you would use it, and how to configure `defaultInstallScope` in the manifest (we should provide a JSON example for context).

## Configure the default capability for a shared scopes

Same as above but this time for `defaultGroupCapability`.

Author: @heath-hamilton - I am working on this suggestion.

![Add an app](../../assets/images/compose-extensions/addanapp.png)

The `defaultInstallScope` property supports values, such as personal, team, groupchat, or meetings.

> [!NOTE]
>`defaultGroupCapability` provides the default capability that is added to the team, group chat, or meetings. Choose a tab, bot, or connector as the default capability for your app, but you must ensure that you have provided the selected capability in your app definition.
> Set the `defaultInstallScope` and `defaultGroupCapability` properties in your [manifest schema](../../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md).

## Configure app's default install scope

Configure the default install scope for your app, based on whether your app needs to installed in personal, team, meetings, or groupchat scope. 

**To configure details in app manifest**

1. In **Teams**, select **Apps**, and open **App Studio**.
2. Select the **Manifest editor** tab, and configure the default install scope.
3. Select **Save**

> [!NOTE]
> You can also manually add the details to your app manifest.

Following is a JSON example:

```json

> (we should provide a JSON example for context).

Reviewer 2: Here is JSON example. Please add hyperlink to full schema present here: https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema?branch=pr-en-us-2931#sample-full-manifest

    "defaultInstallScope": "meetings",
    "defaultGroupCapability": {
        "team": "bot",
        "groupchat": "bot",
        "meetings": "tab"
    }

Some of these apps are intended to work in a team, meetings, or a groupchat, with personal app experience being secondary.
The default install scope selection helps you to specify the `defaultInstallScope` for the apps that you publish. The app installation experience makes the default options available to the user, while the rest is moved under the chevron as highlighted in the image.

![Add an app](../../assets/images/compose-extensions/addanapp.png)

The `defaultInstallScope` property supports values, such as personal, team, groupchat, or meetings.

> [!NOTE]
>`defaultGroupCapability` provides the default capability that is added to the team, groupchat, or meetings. Choose a tab, bot, or connector as the default capability for your app, but you must ensure that you have provided the selected capability in your app definition.

## Configure app's default install scope

Configure the default install scope for your app, based on whether your app needs to be installed in personal, team, meetings, or groupchat. You can set only one scope at a time.

**To configure details in app manifest**

1. Open your manifest schema, and add the `defaultInstallScope` property to it.

> 2. Save the updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set a value of `personal`, `team`, `groupchat`, or `meetings` (see an example below).
```

>     Following is a JSON example:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need to state this is a JSON example when the code snippet feature essentially does this.

    ```json
    "defaultInstallScope": "meetings",
    ```

> [!NOTE]

> > For information on full schema, see [manifest schema](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For more information, see the [app manifest schema](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md).
```

## Configure the default capability for shared scopes

> Configure the default capability for shared scopes, based on whether your app is installed in personal, team, meetings, or groupchat scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the default capability when your app is installed for a team, meeting, or chat.
```

**To configure details in app manifest**

> 1. Open your manifest schema, and add the `defaultGroupCapability` property to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your app manifest and add the `defaultGroupCapability` property to it.
```
